500-Cities-Local-Data-for-Better-Health

This is the dataset for the 500 cities in US which includes 2014, 2015 model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic diseases which are related to unhealthy behaviors, health outcomes, and use of preventive services. Data was provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. Despite limited data available at the county and metropolitan levels, this dataset represents a first-of-its kind data analysis to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within cities. This system complements existing surveillance data mandatory to more fully understand the health issues that affect the residents of that city or census tract. It includes estimates for 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These high-quality, small-area epidemiologic data can be used both by individual cities and group of cities as well as other stakeholders to help develop and implement effective and targeted prevention activities; identify rising health problems; and creating and auditing key health objectives. For example, city planners and elected officials may want to use this data to point neighborhoods with high rates of smoking or other health risk behaviors for effective interventions. Because the small area model cannot identify effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data (2014, 2015), Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) estimates. 
